readme.md, before:

# laucxserver

Backend for the Launcx payment aggregator.

See [docs/services](docs/services) for service-specific endpoints, dependencies, and environment variables.

## Environment Variables

Set `FRONTEND_BASE_URL` to the publicly accessible URL of the frontend site. It is used when creating card payment sessions to build redirect links such as `/payment-success`, `/payment-failure`, and `/payment-expired`.

## Reconcile Partner Balances

Run `npm run reconcile-balances` after setting database environment variables to recompute client balances.

## API Documentation

Generate and serve Swagger docs for payment, withdrawal, and withdrawal S2S routes:

```bash
npm run docs
```

This command writes `docs/api/payment.yaml`, `docs/api/withdrawal.yaml`, and `docs/api/withdrawal.s2s.yaml` and hosts them at `http://localhost:3001/docs/payment`, `/docs/withdrawal`, and `/docs/withdrawal-s2s`.

S2S withdrawal requests must include `X-API-Key`, `X-Timestamp`, and `X-Signature` headers and originate from an IP address whitelisted under the `s2s_ip_whitelist` setting. Whitelist entries dapat dikonfigurasi melalui halaman Admin Settings di frontend.

Commit message:

feat: make rate limiter configurable

readme.md, after:

# laucxserver

Backend for the Launcx payment aggregator.

See [docs/services](docs/services) for service-specific endpoints, dependencies, and environment variables.

## Environment Variables

Set `FRONTEND_BASE_URL` to the publicly accessible URL of the frontend site. It is used when creating card payment sessions to build redirect links such as `/payment-success`, `/payment-failure`, and `/payment-expired`.

Rate limiting for public traffic can be tuned with the following environment variables:

- `RATE_LIMIT_WINDOW_MS` (default `60000`): Sliding time window in milliseconds for the global rate limiter.
- `RATE_LIMIT_MAX` (default `10000`): Maximum number of requests allowed per client within the configured window.

Ops teams can raise or lower these values per instance to match the expected throughput.

## Reconcile Partner Balances

Run `npm run reconcile-balances` after setting database environment variables to recompute client balances.

## API Documentation

Generate and serve Swagger docs for payment, withdrawal, and withdrawal S2S routes:

```bash
npm run docs
```

This command writes `docs/api/payment.yaml`, `docs/api/withdrawal.yaml`, and `docs/api/withdrawal.s2s.yaml` and hosts them at `http://localhost:3001/docs/payment`, `/docs/withdrawal`, and `/docs/withdrawal-s2s`.

S2S withdrawal requests must include `X-API-Key`, `X-Timestamp`, and `X-Signature` headers and originate from an IP address whitelisted under the `s2s_ip_whitelist` setting. Whitelist entries dapat dikonfigurasi melalui halaman Admin Settings di frontend.
